Documentation updates (#86)
giantswarm/loki-app: README.md

This chart is meant to be used with S3 compatible storage only. Access to the S3
storage must be ensured for the chart to work. You can check

> [the sample config file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/sample_configs/values-gs.yaml) to check for annotations

Reviewer: That's not a valid link.

```suggestion
[the sample config file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/blob/master/sample_configs/values-gs.yaml) to check for annotations
```

that can be used to make it work with AWS S3 using
[KIAM](https://github.com/uswitch/kiam). Check [below](#deploying-on-aws) to see

> what configuration you need on the AWS side.

Reviewer: This section is very AWS specific and do not belong here.

Author: Fixed.

### General recommendations

> The number of `replicas` in the [default values file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/helm/loki/values.yaml) are generally considered as safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of `replicas` in the [default values file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/blob/master/helm/loki/values.yaml) are generally considered as safe.
```

> The number of `replicas` in the [default values file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/blob/master/helm/loki/values.yaml) are generally considered as safe.

Author: Will be pushed with next update.

If you reduce the number of `replicas` below the default recommended values, expect undefined behaviour and problems.

#### Prepare config file

1. Create app config file

>     Grab the included [sample config file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/sample_configs/values-gs.yaml) or [azure sample config file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/sample_configs/values-gs-azure.yaml) ,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Grab the included [sample config file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/blob/master/sample_configs/values-gs.yaml) or [azure sample config file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/blob/master/sample_configs/values-gs-azure.yaml) ,
```

    read the comments for options and adjust to your needs. To check all available

>     options, please consult the [upstream `values.yaml` file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/helm/loki/values.yaml).

Reviewer: Should this link actually point to the upstream repo ?

```suggestion
    options, please consult the [upstream `values.yaml` file](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/loki/values.yaml).
```

Author: You're right, that's ambiguous. :thinking: 
The grafana-upstream one will be the most recent version, which may not be ours. So it's "our copy of the upstream file".
Thanks for pointing out, I'll fix the wording!

2. update `nodeSelectorTerms` to match your nodes (if unsure, `kubectl describe nodes [one worker node] | grep machine-` should give you the right id for `machine-deployment` or `machine-pool` depending on your provider). Beware, there's 2 places to update!

3. update `gateway.ingress.hosts.host` and `gateway.ingress.tls.host` 

### Deploying on AWS

The recommended deployment mode is using S3 storage mode. Assuming your cluster
has `kiam`, `cert-manager` and `external-dns` included, you should be good to use
the instructions below to setup S3 bucket and the necessary permissions in your
AWS account.

> Make sure you create this config for the *workload cluster* where you are deploying Loki.

Reviewer: I would try to be cluster type agnostic as possible, in the end loki will be installable on any cluster (both management and workload cluster)

```suggestion
Make sure to create this config in order to deploy Loki.
```

Author: I agree, but I got lost between the MC and the WC's cloud-provider view, hence the specific + bold wording.
Let me try to rephrase it.

  - 'Account kind' should be 'BlobStorage'
  - You can do it using Powershell in Azure portal. Example:
  ```
> az storage account create \
     --subscription SUBSCRIPTION_NAME
     --name STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME \
     --resource-group RESOURCE_GROUP \
     --sku Standard_GRS \
     --encryption-services blob \
     --https-only true \
     --kind BlobStorage \
     --access-tier Hot
```
(It may be required to set the location using the `--location` flag.)

3. Create a 'Blob service' 'Container' in your storage account
  - Example on how to do it with Powershell in Azure portal:
```
> az storage container create --subscription SUBSCRIPTION_NAME -n CONTAINER_NAME --public-access off --account-name STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME
```

4. Go to the 'Access keys' page of your 'Storage account'
  - Use the 'Storage account name' for `azure_storage.account_name`
  - Use the name of the 'Blob service' 'Container' for `azure_storage.blob_container_name`
  - Use one of the keys for `azure.storage_key`

> 5. Make a personal copy of the [azure example file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/sample_configs/values-gs-azure.yaml) and fill in the values from previous step and also cluster id and node pool ids

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Make a personal copy of the [azure example file](https://github.com/giantswarm/loki-app/blob/master/sample_configs/values-gs-azure.yaml) and fill in the values from previous step and also cluster id and node pool ids
```

```
  * Test direct access to querier
```
# port-forward querier to local port 3101
k port-forward -n loki loki-querier-0 3101:3100
# or loki-query-frontend-xxxx port 3100 accepts the same queries

# List all streams
$ logcli --org-id="tenant-1" --addr="http://localhost:3100" series '{}'
http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/series?end=1654091687961363182&match=%7B%7D&start=1654088087961363182
```

### Ingesting data with promtail

* Get promtail from https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases
* Create basic promtail config file `promtail-test.yml`:
```
---
server:
  disable: true
positions:
  filename: /tmp/promtail_test_positions.yaml
clients:
  - url: http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/push
    tenant_id: tenant-1
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: logfile
    static_configs:
      - targets:
          - localhost
        labels:
          job: logfile
          host: local
          __path__: /tmp/lokitest.log
```
* port-forward Loki distributor to localhost:3100
```
k port-forward -n loki loki-distributor-67c7c49cfc-rwwsv 3100:3100
```
* Launch promtail
```
promtail --config.file=promtail-test.yml --inspect
```
* Add data to your log file
```

> (while : ; do echo "test log line $(date)"; sleep 1; done ) >> /tmp/lokitest.log

Reviewer: This is a while true, right?

```suggestion
(while true ; do echo "test log line $(date)"; sleep 1; done ) >> /tmp/lokitest.log
```

```

> * Query promtail and see your data

Reviewer: Maybe add one line description on how to query promtail.

Author: Wrong word, I wrote too fast, I meant `loki` :facepalm: . I'll fix it.

### Deploying on Azure

1. Find the 'Subscription' (usually named after your installation) name and the 'Resource group' of your cluster (usually named after cluster id) inside your 'Azure subscription'

2. Create 'Storage Account' on Azure ([How-to](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create)) ['Create storage account'](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.StorageAccount)
  - 'Account kind' should be 'BlobStorage'
  - You can do it using Powershell in Azure portal. Example:
  ```

> > az storage account create \

Reviewer: I would remove the leading `>` to ease copy paste

```suggestion
az storage account create \
```

Author: Yep, that's done in my next command, where I reviewed all of the Azure CLI commands.

     --subscription SUBSCRIPTION_NAME \

>      --name STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME \

Reviewer: Maybe make it explicit that this is the user's choice

```suggestion
     --name mystorage \
```

Author: Replaced by a variable, with should clarify it. You'll tell me what you think of it next time I push.

     --resource-group RESOURCE_GROUP \
     --sku Standard_GRS \
     --encryption-services blob \
     --https-only true \
     --kind BlobStorage \
     --access-tier Hot
```
(It may be required to set the location using the `--location` flag.)

3. Create a 'Blob service' 'Container' in your storage account
  - Example on how to do it with Powershell in Azure portal:
```

> > az storage container create --subscription SUBSCRIPTION_NAME -n CONTAINER_NAME --public-access off --account-name STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
az storage container create --subscription SUBSCRIPTION_NAME -n mycontainer --public-access off --account-name mystorage
```

4. Go to the 'Access keys' page of your 'Storage account'
  - Use the 'Storage account name' for `azure_storage.account_name`
  - Use the name of the 'Blob service' 'Container' for `azure_storage.blob_container_name`
  - Use one of the keys for `azure.storage_key`

5. Fill in the values from previous step as well as cluster id and node pool ids in your config (`values.yaml`) file.

6. Install the app using your values.

Check out AWS instructions for [single tenant setup](#single-tenant-config) and [multi tenant setup](#multi-tenant-config) configurations.

## Testing your deployment

### Reading data with logcli

1. Install latest logcli from https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases

2. Here are a few test queries for Loki, that you should adapt with your URL and credentials:

  * test from WAN
```
# List all streams
logcli --username=Tenant1 --password=1tnaneT --addr="http://loki.nx4tn.k8s.gauss.eu-west-1.aws.gigantic.io" series '{}'
```

  * Test with a port-forward to the gateway:
```
k port-forward -n loki svc/loki-gateway 8080:80
logcli --username=Tenant1 --password=1tnaneT --addr="http://localhost:8080" series '{}'
```

  * You can also test direct access to querier
```

> # port-forward querier to local port 3101
> k port-forward -n loki svc/loki-querier 3101:3100

Reviewer: Let's only use port `3100` for less confusion

```suggestion
# port-forward querier to local port 3100
k port-forward -n loki svc/loki-querier 3100
```

# or loki-query-frontend-xxxx port 3100 accepts the same queries

# List all streams
# Note that we use "org-id" rather than "username/password" when we bypass the gateway

> $ logcli --org-id="tenant-1" --addr="http://localhost:3101" series '{}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ logcli --org-id="tenant-1" --addr="http://localhost:3100" series '{}'
```

Author: :+1:

> http://localhost:3101/loki/api/v1/series?end=1654091687961363182&match=%7B%7D&start=1654088087961363182

Reviewer: ```suggestion
http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/series?end=1654091687961363182&match=%7B%7D&start=1654088087961363182
```

```

### Ingesting data with promtail

* Get promtail from https://github.com/grafana/loki/releases
* Create basic promtail config file `promtail-test.yml`:

> ```
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

Author: :+1:
